blog: add announcement article about dropping alpine image (#368)
fluent/fluentd-website: content/blog/20250314_fluentd-drop-alpine-docker-image.md

# Drop alpine and switch default to debian for Fluentd docker image

Hi users!

We have planned to change what docker image provides.

> Currently, we ships Fluentd docker image for alpine and debian (armhf, arm64, amd64).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, we ship Fluentd docker image for alpine and debian (armhf, arm64, amd64).
```

But, alpine image in Fluentd was already marked as deprecated, so we will make things forward.

> In near future, we will drop alpine image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the near future, we will drop alpine image.
```

This decision affects existing alpine image users.

## Notice about existing alpine image users

* `fluent/fluentd:edge` will be changed from alpine to debian image

>   * This is notable incompatible change!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * This is a notable incompatible change!
```

* v1.19 (not released yet)

>   * No more release for alpine images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * No more releases for alpine images
```

  * Then short tag also changed to debian images (e.g. v1.19.0-1.0, v1.19-1 should be debian instead of alpine)

> * v1.18 alpine image will not be supported when v1.19 was released (T.B.D.), so recommend to migrate it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* v1.18 alpine image will not be supported after v1.19 is released (T.B.D.), so recommend to migrate it!
```

> * v1.16 alpine image will be supported until Dec 2025, so there is a room to migrate gradually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* v1.16 alpine image will be supported until Dec 2025, so there is room to migrate gradually.
```

If you still want to use alpine, keep v1.16 series or v1.18 series. (not recommended though)

## Why not provide alpine anymore?

It was well known that alpine has possibility of incompatibility and performance issues in contrast to debian images.
It was a historical reason to provide alpine images - "In the previous versions, we provided them",
so there is no positive reason to continue it.

> ## What will be changed existing Debian image users?

Reviewer: At first glance, this section title makes me wonder if there are any incompatibility changes for Debian image users as well.

How about a more descriptive title?
For example ...

```suggestion
## Provide shorter tags to follow internal version bump
```

Not only just dropping alpine image, we will improve tagging rules:

> * Add version specific tag which will not be affected by internal version bump

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add version-specific tag which will not be affected by internal version bump
```

> In the previous versions, no version specific tag which will follow it without being affected internal version bump.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions, there was no version-specific tag which would follow internal version bump.
```

For example, if you want to stick to Fluentd v1.18.0, you can select v1.18.0-1.0, but if internal version was bumped to v1.18.0-1.1 or something, need to update it.

> There is `edge-debian` tag, but it is valid until next major/minor version was released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is `edge-debian` tag, but it does not stick to a specific Fluentd version because it will automatically update when the next major/minor version is released.
```

It was a little tricky for me to understand.
Wouldn't it be clearer this way?
